Add bpf_redirect_map for AF_XDP sockets (#1008)
microsoft/xdp-for-windows: docs/ebpf-redirect-map.md

> # eBPF Redirect Map (XSKMAP)

Author: This entire document should be careful to frame the bpf_redirect_map function as conceptually supporting / extensible to other map types; the XSKMAP is the only _currently supported_ type.

## Overview

The **XSKMAP** (`BPF_MAP_TYPE_XSKMAP`) is a specialized eBPF map type that
enables XDP eBPF programs to redirect packets to
[AF_XDP](afxdp.md) sockets. It is the primary mechanism for delivering
wire-rate packet data to user-mode applications when using eBPF programs with
XDP for Windows.

User mode creates AF_XDP sockets (XSKs), populates the XSKMAP with socket
handles keyed by RX queue index, and the eBPF program calls
`bpf_redirect_map()` to steer matching packets into the appropriate socket.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph User Mode
        S1["1. Create XSK"]
        S2["2. Populate XSKMAP<br/>key=queue_idx<br/>val=xsk_handle"]
        S3["3. Load & attach<br/>eBPF program"]
        S4["4. Receive pkts<br/>via UMEM rings"]
        S1 --> S2 --> S3 --> S4
    end

    subgraph Kernel
        XSKMAP["XSKMAP<br/>[0] -> XSK handle<br/>[1] -> XSK handle"]
        EBPF["eBPF program<br/>bpf_redirect_map()"]
        EBPF -- lookup --> XSKMAP
    end

    S2 -- populate --> XSKMAP
    EBPF -- redirect --> S4
```

## Map Definition

Declare the XSKMAP in your eBPF program using the BTF-style map syntax:

```c
struct {
    __uint(type, BPF_MAP_TYPE_XSKMAP);

>     __type(key, uint32_t);

Author: Should be a 64-bit key (needs to be updated across the entire PR).

    __type(value, void *);
    __uint(max_entries, 64);
} xsk_map SEC(".maps");
```

| Field | Value | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| `type` | `BPF_MAP_TYPE_XSKMAP` (16) | Identifies this as an XSK redirect map. |
| `key` | `uint32_t` | The key type. Typically the RX queue index. |
| `value` | `void *` | Opaque XSK socket handle (populated by user mode). |

> | `max_entries` | Application-defined | Should be >= the number of RX queues you intend to use. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `max_entries` | Application-defined | Should be >= the number of sockets you intend to use. |
```

## `bpf_redirect_map` Helper

```c
intptr_t bpf_redirect_map(void *map, uint32_t key, uint64_t flags);
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `map` | Pointer to a `BPF_MAP_TYPE_XSKMAP` map. |
| `key` | Lookup key into the map. Conventionally `ctx->rx_queue_index` so the packet is delivered to the socket bound to the same RX queue. |
| `flags` | The lower 2 bits encode a fallback `xdp_action_t` value returned when the lookup or redirect fails. Common values: `XDP_PASS` (let the packet continue up the stack) or `XDP_DROP`. |

### Return Value

- **`XDP_REDIRECT`** -- on success. The XDP driver redirects the packet to the
  AF_XDP socket found in the map.
- **Fallback action** -- on failure (extracted from the low two bits of `flags`). Failure can occur when:
  - The key does not exist in the map (no XSK handle for that queue).

>   - The XSK socket is not in a valid state for redirect (e.g., not yet

Author: Also include mismatched queue as a documented invalid state.

    activated or already closing).

> ## Examples

Author: We should also link to the concrete sample source code in this repo.

programs with XDP for Windows.

User mode creates AF_XDP sockets (XSKs), populates the XSKMAP with socket
handles keyed by RX queue index, and the eBPF program calls
`bpf_redirect_map()` to steer matching packets into the appropriate socket.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph User Mode
        S1["1. Create XSK"]
        S2["2. Populate XSKMAP<br/>key=queue_idx<br/>val=xsk_handle"]
        S3["3. Load & attach<br/>eBPF program"]
        S4["4. Receive pkts<br/>via UMEM rings"]
        S1 --> S2 --> S3 --> S4
    end

    subgraph Kernel
        XSKMAP["XSKMAP<br/>[0] -> XSK handle<br/>[1] -> XSK handle"]
        EBPF["eBPF program<br/>bpf_redirect_map()"]
        EBPF -- lookup --> XSKMAP
    end

    S2 -- populate --> XSKMAP
    EBPF -- redirect --> S4
```

## Map Definition

Declare the XSKMAP in your eBPF program using the BTF-style map syntax:

```c
struct {
    __uint(type, BPF_MAP_TYPE_XSKMAP);
    __type(key, uint64_t);
    __type(value, void *);
    __uint(max_entries, 64);
} xsk_map SEC(".maps");
```

| Field | Value | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| `type` | `BPF_MAP_TYPE_XSKMAP` (16) | Identifies this as an XSK redirect map. |

> | `key` | `uint64_t` | The key type. Typically the RX queue index. |

Reviewer: "typically" -> is there any other meaningful value?

Author: No, but it is not necessarily the RX queue index. Would "should" in the RFC sense be clearer?
